2d Warlord


Menu page:
-start campaign
-continue campaign
-quick battle
-quit game
-settings

World screen:
2d like vertical, so like any mario game/ 2d street fighter.
World will be smooth, not blocky, hills, caves, mountains.
different layers? like scaling the mountain behind, but also can walk the path in front, and from the mountain you can climb back down.
water physics? that's hard, but also boats?
other physical elements such as wind, fire, heat, cold.
and the world will have fixed elements, physics enabled elements, and hybrids( so that with interaction they become physics)

Trees and vegetation react to the elements, and can be interacted with to harvest wood/herbs or other materials
Entities: Humans, but also animals, such as cattle, horses, dogs, chicken, pigs, sheep, so basic farm animals.
Now the style will at first be very very basic, but will then be somewhat pixelated sophisticated.

player as a human will be able to walk, run, crouch, slide, interact with pretty much everything, hold tools/items

now battle mechanics: so 1v1 and army vs army

on a 1v1 it will consist in base attack, that can be combined with the other player states to create special attacks:
so if it's running it'll be somewhat thrusting powerful, if its standing it will be the base, if it's crouching it'll be a dodgin counter. it brings diversity without adding difficult keys to remember
then the blocking and parrying, so normal blocking costing stamina/posture metric, then parrying being stamina free and stunning the enemy for a brief moment.
there will also be projectile weapons, all the classic melee weapons.

the problem here is that since large scale battles mostly scale horizontally,
but in this 2d world there is no space for that, large scale warfare will be more about
sieges, warriors holding down gates and passages, and intrusive spyware, assassinations.
still though on the same level battlefield a maximum of around 20 soldiers will be allowed to fight contemporarly
through long distance weapons, and melee tactics. (such as refreshing the frontline with rotations)
or maybe if you can do it, this mechanic could simulate an army holding out a line such as this or at least in a small scale:
10 soldiers gather to the front, and they perform a line, basically they merge into a grouped entity, that is like a line formation
and this line formation will have a certain soldier count that will directly affect it's strength. It could withstand blows and enemy advances
or also be blown from a particularly strong foe.

the army and political side will be organized in a very rigorous ranking system.
there will always be a leader and subordinate, who the AI or the player will have to direct/respond to

economically there will be farming, fishing, merchant, soldier work, building, and the market prices and supply will all be simulated.



so anyway for now in 15 hours I want to build this just to prototype:
Menu with start play:
then in play we want a player with most of the player states:
walking, running, crouching, sliding.
basic fighting mechanics: atk 1 and combos with the player states
blocking and parrying.
a sword with the animations
a basic dummy enemy ai that can fight the player, with the same set of fightin mechanics
then a cultivating farm so that it makes wheat
simplest live market form of wheat == money depending on supply.
a simple wall building to defend, that has a durability stat, and can be attacked/destroyed
a tent where the player can rest in.